Add script for migrating from other CNI to Antrea (#5677)
antrea-io/antrea: docs/migrate-to-antrea.md

Author: Added `doc/migrate-to-antrea.md` to `hack/.notableofcontents`.

> # Migrate from other CNI to Antrea

Author: Added to `hack/.notableofcontents`

> 

Author: Add supported Calico and Flannel version now.

This document describes how to migrate from other CNIs to Antrea. Currently, we support migration from Calico and
Flannel.
As for Calico, NetworkPolicy conversion is conditional supported. As for Flannel, only Pod networking migration is
supported.

With the help of migration [script](../hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh) ant `antctl` subcommand `migrate`, the migration

> process is fully automated.

Author: An example added to show how to use the script.

The migration process is divided into four steps:

1. Install Antrea in the cluster.
2. If necessary, convert NetworkPolicy from other CNI to Antrea.
3. Restart all Pods in the cluster in-place.
4. Uninstall the old CNI.

## Install Antrea

The script will check the requirement of CNI migration at first. If we are migrating from Calico, the script will list
all Calico NetworkPolicy to check if there is any unsupported feature. If we are migrating from Flannel, the script will
check if Antrea is installed in the cluster. If Antrea is already installed, the script will exit with an error message.

## Convert NetworkPolicy

> If the old CNI is Calico, the script will convert Calico NetworkPolicy to Antrea NetworkPolicy. The conversion is based

Author: Add some description about `--dry-run` and `--backup`.

on Calico NetworkPolicy CRD, so the script will check if the Calico APIServer is running in the cluster. If the Calico

> APIServer is not running, the script will exit with an error message. If the Calico APIServer is running, the script will convert Calico NetworkPolicy to Antrea NetworkPolicy using `antctl migrate convert-networkpolicy`. If the conversion fails, the script will exit with an error message.

Author: Wrapped, as well as some other lines.

> # Migrate from other CNI to Antrea

Reviewer: The whole file is not using a consistent line width.

Author: Reformated this doc with a consistent line width, now all lines are less than 80 characters.

This document describes how to migrate from other CNIs to Antrea. Currently, we support migration
from Calico and Flannel.

> As for Calico, NetworkPolicy conversion is supported conditionally. As for Flannel, only Pod

Reviewer: Does flannel has non-networking stuff?

Author: Removed this sentence.

networking migration is supported.

> NOTE: The migration process is only verified on Kubernetes v1.27.3, Calico v3.26.1 and Flannel

Author: Sure, added more NOTE. And I verified Calico v3.26.1, v3.26.2, and v3.26.3, all of them work well. So I just mention v3.26 here.

> v0.22.3. Other versions may not be supported. And the migration process only supports

Reviewer: Since the solution is generic, I feel the guide doesn't need to be specific to CNIs. Like
"The following is a list of CNIs and versions we have verified the migration process, for your reference. CNIs and versions that are not listed probably work, please [create an issue](https://...) if you run into problems when migrating to Antrea."

Author: Done.

Linux Node.

With the help of migration [script](../hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh) and the `antctl migrate` command,
the migration process is fully automated. You can use one of the following commands to start the migration:

```bash
# Migrate from Calico to Antrea
./hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh --from calico
# Migrate from Flannel to Antrea
./hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh --from flannel
```

More details about the migration process are described in the following sections. And you can learn how to use
the script by running `./hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh --help`.

The migration process is divided into four steps:

1. Install Antrea in the cluster.

> 2. If necessary, convert NetworkPolices from other CNI to Antrea.

Reviewer: Is this the only reason why we need to specify `--from` in the command? If yes, I feel it's not worth to do the conversion in Antrea itself, as it needs too many knowledge to do this job and may need continuous support, and it's not guaranteed that there is always a 1:1 mapping, there could also be version issues.
cc @jianjuns @antoninbas for opinions.

Reviewer: Yes, I mean not to convert any CNI provider specific NetworkPolicy here. It would also make the tool more generic. If someone really needs to covert some CNI provider specific resource in the future, it doesn't really need to be part of this migrator, a 3rd-party tool may be more proper.
The scope of the migrator in my mind:
Should not do:
1. uninstallaton of the original CNI (too many cases/method to support, and perhaps look aggressive)
2. resource conversion of the original CNI specific resources (ditto)

Should do:
1. migrate Pods network to Antrea CNI
2. cleanup of stale network resources/configurations on the system that may affect the Pod's network after migration

Reviewer 2: Sounds good to me.

For this one:
> cleanup of stale network resources/configurations on the system that may affect the Pod's network after migration

can this be done in a generic way?

Author: > Should not do:
uninstallaton of the original CNI (too many cases/method to support, and perhaps look aggressive, it's not hard for users to uninstall anyway)
resource conversion of the original CNI specific resources (ditto)

Hi Quan. I am not sure whether the Network will work properly since there may be some route conflict. Maybe we just need to output a message to reminder users to uninstall their old CNIs.?

Reviewer: > > cleanup of stale network resources/configurations on the system that may affect the Pod's network after migration
> 
> can this be done in a generic way?

I suppose no because every CNI has its own configuration on the system while it's too risky to just remove everything that are not needed by Antrea. But I think there aren't too many cleanup: iptables(/nftables), ip link, ip route.

> Hi Quan. I am not sure whether the Network will work properly since there may be some route conflict. Maybe we just need to output a message to reminder users to uninstall their old CNIs.?

"cleanup of stale network resources/configurations on the system" is part of "Should do", do I misunderstand your question?

I think uninstalling old CNIs should be done before the migration, otherwise old CNIs can create their resources back after cleanup. I'm fine with outputing a message to remind users, perhaps it could be part of precheck.

@antoninbas @hjiajing furthermore, I'm thinking if we should just let users uninstall old CNI and install Antrea in anyway they like, then run the migrator which takes care of migrating existing Pods and cleanup of stale network resources. This should make the migrator simpler and easier to run it in various distributions.

Reviewer 2: > I'm thinking if we should just let users uninstall old CNI and install Antrea in anyway they like, then run the migrator which takes care of migrating existing Pods and cleanup of stale network resources. This should make the migrator simpler and easier to run it in various distributions

Works for me

Author: Removed the NP conversion and uninstall old CNI steps.

3. Restart all Pods in the cluster in-place.

> 4. Uninstall the old CNI.

Reviewer: Feel we should probably let users do this as it's too specific to how the original CNI was installed.

Author: Remove step 4.

## Install Antrea

The script will check the requirement of CNI migration at first. If we are migrating from Calico,

> the script will list all Calico NetworkPolicy to check if there is any unsupported feature. If

Reviewer 3: @hjiajing looks like this comment is not resolved.

the script will list all Calico NetworkPolicy to check if there is any unsupported feature. If

> we are migrating from Flannel, the script will check if Antrea is installed in the cluster.

Reviewer: don't get why this check is only executed with Flannel. And feel it may be too verbose to list the obvious prechecks here.

Author: Removed this sentence.

CNI is Flannel, the script will skip this step. We recommend that you use the `--dry-run` option
to check the commands that will be executed before running the script, and backup resources
before running the script.

You can also backup the Calico NetworkPolicy resources by the migration script with the `--backup`
option as follows:

```bash
# Back up all NetworkPolicies to /tmp/calico-backup
./hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh --from calico --backup --backup-dir /tmp/calico-backup
```

The conversion is based on Calico NetworkPolicy CRD, so the script will check if the Calico
APIServer is running in the cluster. If the Calico APIServer is not running, the script will
exit with an error message. If the Calico APIServer is running, the script will convert Calico
NetworkPolicy to Antrea NetworkPolicy using `antctl migrate convert-networkpolicy`. If the
conversion fails, the script will exit with an error message.

Calico also uses CRD `NetworkSet` and `GlobalNetworkSet` to define CIDR Set. While migration,
all `NetworkSet` will be converted to Antrea CDR `Group`, and all `GlobalNetworkSet` will be
converted to `ClusterGroup`.

> The CRD conversion is as follows:

Author: "mapping" added.

| `spec.Ingress.NotICMP` or `spec.Egress.NotICMP`         | NO                           |
| `spec.Ingress.NotProtocol` or `spec.Egress.NotProtocol` | NO                           |
| `spec.Ingress.NotPorts` or `spec.Egress.NotPorts`       | NO                           |
| `spec.Ingress.Metadata` or `spec.Egress.Metadata`       | NO                           |
| `spec.Ingress.NotSelector` or `spec.Egress.NotSelector` | NO                           |
| `spec.Ingress.HTTP` or `spec.Egress.HTTP`               | NO                           |
| `spec.Ingress.NotNets` or `spec.Egress.NotNets`         | NO                           |
| All other features                                      | YES                          |

## Restart Pods

After Antrea is installed in the cluster, the script will restart all Pods in the cluster in-place
by deploying a DaemonSet named `antrea-migrator`, which will run a Pod on each Node. The `antrea-migrator`
Pod will kill all Pods' containerd task on each Node, and the containerd task will be restarted
by the containerd service. In this way, all Pods in the cluster will be restarted in-place and do not
need to be rescheduled and recreated.

> The restart result is as follows, every Pods' `RESTARTS` will be increased by 1:

Author: Fixed.

```bash

> $ kubectl get pod -n migrate-test -o wide

Author: These Pod are not antrea-migrator, just some workload examples, so I used `migrate-test` Namespace, maybe `migrate-example` is better?

by the containerd service. In this way, all Pods in the cluster will be restarted in-place and will not
be rescheduled and recreated.

The restart result is will be similar as follows, every Pod's `RESTARTS` will be increased by 1:

```bash
$ kubectl get pod -o wide
NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS      AGE    IP          NODE          NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-29qbq   1/1     Running   1 (24s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.3   test-worker   <none>           <none>
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-dqx2g   1/1     Running   1 (23s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.6   test-worker   <none>           <none>
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-jpflg   1/1     Running   1 (23s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.5   test-worker   <none>           <none>
```

## Clean up old CNI

After all Pods are restarted, the script will uninstall the old CNI by using `kubectl delete -f <old-cni-yaml>`.
The old CNI manifest is specified by the `--calico-manifest` or `--flannel-manifest` option. If this option

> is not specified, the script will try to use the latest version.

Reviewer: This doesn't look like something must be done by Antrea.
If possible, we should even ask users to remove the original CNI first, then we only do the installation and stale resources cleanup.

# Migrate from other CNI to Antrea

This document describes how to migrate from other CNIs to Antrea. Currently, we support migration
from Calico and Flannel.
As for Calico, NetworkPolicy conversion is supported conditionally. As for Flannel, only Pod
networking migration is supported.

NOTE: The migration process is only verified on Kubernetes v1.27.3, Calico v3.26 and Flannel

> v0.22.3. Other versions may not be supported. What's more, the migration process only supports
> Linux Node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
v0.22.3. Other versions may not be supported. And the migration process only supports
Linux Node.
```

With the help of migration [script](../hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh) and the `antctl migrate` command,
the migration process is fully automated. You can use one of the following commands to start the migration:

```bash
# Migrate from Calico to Antrea
./hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh --from calico
# Migrate from Flannel to Antrea
./hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh --from flannel
```

More details about the migration process are described in the following sections. And you can learn how to use
the script by running `./hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh --help`.

The migration process is divided into four steps:

1. Install Antrea in the cluster.
2. If necessary, convert NetworkPolices from other CNI to Antrea.
3. Restart all Pods in the cluster in-place.
4. Uninstall the old CNI.

## Install Antrea

The script will check the requirement of CNI migration at first. If we are migrating from Calico,
the script will list all Calico NetworkPolicy to check if there is any unsupported feature. If
we are migrating from Flannel, the script will check if Antrea is installed in the cluster.

> If Antrea is already installed, the script will exit with an error message.

Author: Add description about the command to install Antrea.

## Convert NetworkPolicy

> If the old CNI is Calico, the script will convert Calico NetworkPolicy to Antrea NetworkPolicy.

Author: Done.

> If the old CNI is Calico, the script will convert Calico NetworkPolicy to Antrea NetworkPolicy.

Reviewer 3: Have you pushed your latest commits? This section looks like the same as before.

When the migration is finished, all Calico NetworkPolicy resources will be deleted. If the old

> CNI is Flannel, the script will skip this step. We recommend you to use the `--dry-run` option

Author: Done.

to check the commands that will be executed before running the script, and back up resources
before running the script.

You can also back up the Calico NetworkPolicy resources by the migration script with the `--backup`
option as follows:

```bash
# Back up all NetworkPolicies to /tmp/calico-backup

> ./hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh --from calico --backup --backup-dir /tmp/calico-backup

Author: Done.

```

The conversion is based on Calico NetworkPolicy CRD, so the script will check if the Calico

> APIServer is running in the cluster. If the Calico APIServer is not running, the script will

Author: Done.

exit with an error message. If the Calico APIServer is running, the script will convert Calico
NetworkPolicy to Antrea NetworkPolicy using `antctl migrate convert-networkpolicy`. If the
conversion fails, the script will exit with an error message.

Calico also uses CRD `NetworkSet` and `GlobalNetworkSet` to define CIDR Set. During migration,

> all `NetworkSet` will be converted to Antrea CDR `Group`, and all `GlobalNetworkSet` will be

Author: Revise "CDR" to "CRD".

| `spec.Ingress.NotICMP` or `spec.Egress.NotICMP`         | NO                           |
| `spec.Ingress.NotProtocol` or `spec.Egress.NotProtocol` | NO                           |
| `spec.Ingress.NotPorts` or `spec.Egress.NotPorts`       | NO                           |
| `spec.Ingress.Metadata` or `spec.Egress.Metadata`       | NO                           |
| `spec.Ingress.NotSelector` or `spec.Egress.NotSelector` | NO                           |
| `spec.Ingress.HTTP` or `spec.Egress.HTTP`               | NO                           |
| `spec.Ingress.NotNets` or `spec.Egress.NotNets`         | NO                           |
| All other features                                      | YES                          |

## Restart Pods

After Antrea is installed in the cluster, the script will restart all Pods in the cluster in-place
by deploying a DaemonSet named `antrea-migrator`, which will run a Pod on each Node. The `antrea-migrator`
Pod will kill all Pods' containerd task on each Node, and the containerd task will be restarted
by the containerd service. In this way, all Pods in the cluster will be restarted in-place and do not

> need to be rescheduled and recreated.

Author: Done.

The restart result is as follows, every Pod's `RESTARTS` will be increased by 1:

```bash
$ kubectl get pod -n migrate-test -o wide
NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS      AGE    IP          NODE          NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-29qbq   1/1     Running   1 (24s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.3   test-worker   <none>           <none>
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-dqx2g   1/1     Running   1 (23s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.6   test-worker   <none>           <none>
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-jpflg   1/1     Running   1 (23s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.5   test-worker   <none>           <none>
```

> ## Uninstall old CNI

Reviewer 3: `Clean up old CNI` would be more proper considering you also delete installed rules.

After all Pods are restarted, the script will uninstall the old CNI by using `kubectl delete -f <old-cni-yaml>`.
The old CNI manifest is specified by the `--calico-manifest` or `--flannel-manifest` option. If this option
is not specified, the script will try to use the latest version.

```bash
# Uninstall Calico
./hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh --from calico --calico-manifest /tmp/calico/calico.yaml
# Uninstall Flannel
./hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh --from flannel --flannel-manifest /tmp/flannel/flannel.yaml

> ```

Reviewer 3: This confused me, I suppose there is no need to run this step again for old CNI deletion, right?
I feel you may add a new line before the script like:
"You should run `migrate-to-antrea.sh` as the following examples If you want to uninstall the CNI with a specific manifest instead of the latest one."

Author: This example shows different CNI's commands, it does cause some misunderstanding, removed.

If the old CNI is Calico, the script will also delete the Calico iptables rules on each Node by

> following command:

Reviewer 3: Please double check and add `the` before all `following command` if it's missed.

Author: Done.

```bash
kubectl exec -n kube-system {ANTREA_AGENT} -- /bin/bash -c 'iptables-save | grep -v cali | iptables-restore' --kubeconfig $KUBECONFIG
```

And if the old CNI is Flannel, the script will also delete the Flannel iptables rules on each
Node by following command:

```bash
kubectl exec -n kube-system {ANTREA_AGENT} -- /bin/bash -c 'iptables-save | grep -v flannel | iptables-restore' --kubeconfig $KUBECONFIG
```

> What's more, if the old CNI is Flannel, the script will also delete the Flannel vxlan interface

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition, if the old CNI is Flannel, the script will also delete the Flannel vxlan interface
```

Author: Done.

> on each Node by following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
on each Node by the following command:
```

Author: "the" added, as well as other "following command".

# Migrate from other CNI to Antrea

This document describes how to migrate from other CNIs to Antrea.

NOTE: The following is a reference list of CNIs and versions we have already
verified the migration process. CNIs and versions that are not listed here
might also work, please create an issue if you run into problems during the
migration to Antrea. In addition, during the migration process, no Kubernetes
resources should be created or deleted, otherwise the migration process might
fail or some unexpected problems might occur.

| CNI     | Version |
|---------|---------|
| Calico  | v3.26   |
| Flannel | v0.22.0 |

The migration process is divided into three steps:

1. Clean up old CNI.
2. Install Antrea in the cluster.
3. Restart all Pods in the cluster in-place.

## Clean up old CNI

Before installing Antrea in the cluster, the old CNI needs to be cleaned up. The
cleanup process is different for different CNIs, but the basic idea is to
remove the old CNI DaemonSet, binaries and configuration files from the cluster.
If the old CNI use iptables to manage the network, the iptables rules need to be

> cleaned up as well.

Reviewer: It should be clear which steps should be done by users and which are by processes. My point is we should ask users to do the easy and method-rich part themselves, e.g. the uninstallation of the explicit assets like DaemonSet, Deployment, CRD, and we do the implicit part automatically with best efforts, and can increase the cleanup step by step.
The reasons were because:
1. There are too many installation methods and versions of CNIs need to customize once the migrator is made specific to methods and versions, while a CNI should work in a consistent way despite of the installation method.
2. Uninstalling a CNI's explicit assets like DS, Deployment, and CRD is not a hard work for users but would be a bit complicated for a migrator, including the CNI discovery, installation method discovery, permission issue (we should avoid acquiring delete permission of DS, Deployment, CRD)
3. Uninstalling a CNI's datapath is a CNI specific job but there is 1 case need to handle anyway, we can do our best to clean them up and some stale resources may not matter if they are not deleted.

For the doc, I think we should be clear that users need to uninstall the old CNI themselves, to remove the old CNI's DaemonSet, Deployment, CRD, etc.  And for those binaries, configuration files, iptables rules, they will be taken care by the migrator, or they don't need to be touched (like the binary), so don't document it like users need to do it themselves, otherwise it lookes quite complicated to run the migrator.

## Install Antrea

> The first step is to install Antrea in the cluster. You can follow the

Reviewer: The second step, otherwise it looks contradictory to the 3-step above

[installation guide](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/main/docs/getting-started.md)

> to install  Antrea in the cluster. The following is an example of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to install Antrea in the cluster. The following is an example of
```

installing Antrea with `build/yamls/antrea.yml`:

```bash
$ kubectl apply -f build/yamls/antrea.yml --kubeconfig ~/.kube/config

> ```

Reviewer: We don't recommend users to deploy the in-development version, and don't add the unnecessary kubeconfig parameter which may just cause the command don't work when users use different path. They don't need us to tell how to load kube config.

Just use the first method:
The following command deploys Antrea with the version specified by `<TAG>`(e.g. v1.14.1)
```
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/releases/download/<TAG>/antrea.yml
```

Author: Agree, an example added.

## Restart Pods

After Antrea is installed in the cluster, the next step is to restart all Pods
in the cluster in-place. The reason for restarting all Pods is that Antrea
needs to take over the network management and IPAM from the old CNI. In order
to avoid the Pods being rescheduled, we restart all Pods in-place by deploying
a DaemonSet named `antrea-migrator`, which will run a Pod on each Node. The
`antrea-migrator` Pod will stop all containerd tasks of Pods with CNI network on
each Node, and the containerd tasks will be restarted by the containerd
service. In this way, all Pods in the cluster will not be rescheduled but will

> be restarted in-place.

Reviewer: After reading the document, as an user I still don't know how I should run the migrator.
The point of the document should be to guide users to do it, then explain how it's achieved if they are interested.

Author: Add a command to run deploy the migrator.  But since the v1.15.0 version is not released and we do not recommend the users to use the dev version, I'm not sure whether this example is ok.

# Migrate from other CNI to Antrea

This document describes how to migrate from other CNIs to Antrea.

> NOTE: The following is a list of CNIs and versions we have verified
> the migration process, for your reference. CNIs and versions that are
> not listed probably work, please create an issue if you run into
> problems when migrating to Antrea.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE: The following is a reference list of CNIs and versions we have already verified
the migration process. CNIs and versions that are not listed here might also work,
please create an issue if you run into problems during the migration to Antrea.
```

| CNI     | Version |
|---------|---------|
| Calico  | v3.26   |
| Flannel | v0.22.0 |

With the help of migration [script](../hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh),
the migration process is fully automated. You can use the following
command to start the migration:

```bash
./hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh
```

More details about the migration process are described in the following
sections. And you can learn how to use the script by running
`./hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh --help`.

The migration process is divided into two steps:

1. Install Antrea in the cluster.
2. Restart all Pods in the cluster in-place.

## Install Antrea

After the requirement check, the script will install Antrea in the cluster
by the following command:

```bash
kubectl apply -f ${ANTREA_MANIFEST} --kubeconfig $KUBECONFIG
```

## Restart Pods

After Antrea is installed in the cluster, the script will restart all Pods in
the cluster in-place by deploying a DaemonSet named `antrea-migrator`,

> which will run a Pod on each Node. The `antrea-migrator` Pod will kill all Pods'

Reviewer 3: I suppose it doesn't kill hostNetwork Pods?

containerd tasks on each Node, and the containerd tasks will be restarted by

> the containerd service. In this way, all Pods in the cluster will be restarted
> in-place and will not `be rescheduled and recreated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the containerd service. In this way, all Pods in the cluster will not be rescheduled
but will be restarted in-place.
```

The restart result is will be similar as follows, every Pod's `RESTARTS` will
be increased by 1:

```bash
$ kubectl get pod -o wide
NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS      AGE    IP          NODE          NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-29qbq   1/1     Running   1 (24s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.3   test-worker   <none>           <none>
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-dqx2g   1/1     Running   1 (23s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.6   test-worker   <none>           <none>
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-jpflg   1/1     Running   1 (23s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.5   test-worker   <none>           <none>
```

## Clean up old CNI

After all Pods are restarted, Antrea will take over the network management and

> IPAM, but the old CNI may still be installed in the cluster. There might be
> static route or iptable rule conflicts between Antrea and the old CNI. So you
> need to clean up the old CNI manually. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
IPAM, but the old CNI may still be running in the cluster. There might be
static routes or iptable rules conflicts between Antrea and the old CNI. So you
need to clean up the old CNI manually after the migration is finished. 
```

Should we highlight that the cluster should be paused and not to schedule any new Pods/Services? otherwise, it will have new stale rules after migration since the old CNI is still running.

# Migrate from other CNI to Antrea

This document describes how to migrate from other CNIs to Antrea.

NOTE: The following is a reference list of CNIs and versions we have already
verified the migration process. CNIs and versions that are not listed here
might also work, please create an issue if you run into problems during the
migration to Antrea. In addition, during the migration process, no Kubernetes
resources should be created or deleted, otherwise the migration process might
fail or some unexpected problems might occur.

| CNI     | Version |
|---------|---------|
| Calico  | v3.26   |
| Flannel | v0.22.0 |

With the help of migration [script](../hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh),
the migration process is fully automated. You can use the following
command to start the migration:

```bash
./hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh
```

More details about the migration process are described in the following
sections. And you can learn how to use the script by running
`./hack/migrate-to-antrea.sh --help`.

The migration process is divided into two steps:

> 1. Install Antrea in the cluster.

Reviewer: We discussed this in https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/5677#discussion_r1424042334.
I still think there is no need to repeat the installation process and doc here. There are plenty of ways of installing antrea in various platforms. **I don't think just supporting one of the methods and asking users to download the manifest locally and help them apply the manifest via this script is really helpful.**  Why can't they just apply the manifest themselves or choose other way of installing?

And applying the default manifest which points to the development branch is not something we really recommend.

which will run a Pod on each Node. The `antrea-migrator` Pod will all containerd
tasks of Pods with CNI network on each Node, and the containerd tasks will
be restarted by the containerd service. In this way, all Pods in the cluster
will not be rescheduled but will be restarted in-place.

The restart result is will be similar as follows, every Pod's `RESTARTS` will
be increased by 1:

```bash
$ kubectl get pod -o wide
NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS      AGE    IP          NODE          NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-29qbq   1/1     Running   1 (24s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.3   test-worker   <none>           <none>
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-dqx2g   1/1     Running   1 (23s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.6   test-worker   <none>           <none>
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-jpflg   1/1     Running   1 (23s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.5   test-worker   <none>           <none>
```

## Clean up old CNI

After all Pods are restarted, Antrea will take over the network management and
IPAM, but the old CNI may still be running in the cluster. There might be
static routes or iptable rules conflicts between Antrea and the old CNI. So you

> need to clean up the old CNI manually after the migration is finished.

Reviewer: I thought the old CNI should be cleaned up before the migration, no? otherwise how the migration script deals with race condition, and how to ensure the old CNI doesn't create its resource back?

The process in my mind is:
1. User uninstalls old CNI (users know how to uninstall it much better than us)
2. Install Antrea in whatever way they like (As explained above, this is not a difficult work, no need to make the migration step specific to one installation method)
3. Run the migration script.

Reviewer: This will make switching CNI in a managed cluster easier, as the plugin manager just needs to removes the old one, installs new one, run a post-deploy script.

# Migrate from another CNI to Antrea

This document describes how to migrate from other CNIs to Antrea.

NOTE: The following is a reference list of CNIs and versions we have already
verified the migration process. CNIs and versions that are not listed here
might also work. Please create an issue if you run into problems during the
migration to Antrea. During the migration process, no Kubernetes resources
should be created or deleted, otherwise the migration process might fail or
some unexpected problems might occur.

| CNI     | Version |
|---------|---------|
| Calico  | v3.26   |
| Flannel | v0.22.0 |

The migration process is divided into three steps:

1. Clean up the old CNI.
2. Install Antrea in the cluster.

> 3. Restart all Pods in the cluster in-place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Deploy Antrea migrator.
```
We can talk about "restart all Pods in the cluster in-place" in its own section.

## Clean up the old CNI

Before installing Antrea in the cluster, the old CNI needs to be cleaned up. The
cleanup process is different for different CNIs, but the basic idea is to
remove the old CNI DaemonSet, Deployment, and CRDs from the cluster. The most
common way is to use the `kubectl delete` command to delete the old CNI, just

> like the following example:

Reviewer: The cleanup process varies across CNIs, typically you should remove the DaemonSet, Deployment, and CRDs of the old CNI from the cluster. For example, if you used `kubectl apply -f <CNI_MANIFEST>` to install the old CNI, you could then use `kubectl delete -f <CNI_MANIFEST>` to uninstall it.

And the example below can be removed.

Author: Addressed.

```bash
$ kubectl delete -f <OLD_CNI_MANIFEST>
```

## Install Antrea

The second step is to install Antrea in the cluster. You can follow the
[installation guide](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/main/docs/getting-started.md)
to install Antrea. The following is an example of installing Antrea v1.14.1:

```bash
$ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/releases/download/v1.14.1/antrea.yml
```

> ## Restart Pods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy Antrea migrator 
```
Describe what users should do, not how it's done.

After Antrea is installed in the cluster, the next step is to restart all
Pods in the cluster in-place by the following command. This step will create

> a DaemonSet in the cluster, which will restart all Pods in the cluster in-place.

Reviewer: After Antrea is up and running, you can now deploy Antrea migrator by the following command. The migrator runs as a DaemonSet in the cluster, which will restart all non hostNetwork Pods in the cluster in-place and perform necessary network resource cleanup.

Author: Done.

> a DaemonSet in the cluster, which will restart all Pods in the cluster in-place.

Author: Done. A description of the version is added in front of this doc.

```bash

> $ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/releases/download/v1.15.0/antrea-migrator.yml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/main/build/yamls/antrea-migrator.yml
```
Like `antrea-aks-node-init.yml`, the resource is version-generic and case-specific, I think we don't need to add it to release assets.

```

The reason for restarting all Pods is that Antrea needs to take over the

> network management and IPAM from the old CNI. In order to avoid the Pods
> being rescheduled, we restart all Pods in-place by deploying a DaemonSet
> named `antrea-migrator`, which will run a Pod on each Node. The
> `antrea-migrator` Pod will stop all containerd tasks of Pods with CNI network on
> each Node, and the containerd tasks will be restarted by the containerd
> service. In this way, all Pods in the cluster will not be rescheduled but will
> be restarted in-place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
network management and IPAM from the old CNI. In order to avoid the Pods
being rescheduled and minimize service downtime, the migrator restarts
all non-hostNetwork Pods in-place by restarting their sandbox container.
Therefore, it's expected to see these Pods' `RESTARTS` being increased
by 1 like below:
```

The restart result will be similar as follows, and every Pod's `RESTARTS` will
be increased by 1:

```bash
$ kubectl get pod -o wide
NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS      AGE    IP          NODE          NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-29qbq   1/1     Running   1 (24s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.3   test-worker   <none>           <none>
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-dqx2g   1/1     Running   1 (23s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.6   test-worker   <none>           <none>
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-jpflg   1/1     Running   1 (23s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.5   test-worker   <none>           <none>

> ```

Reviewer: Add a paragraph to say after which condition (like all Pods of antrea-migrator are ready), it's safe to remove the DaemonSet.

# Migrate from another CNI to Antrea

This document provides guidance on migrating from other CNIs to Antrea
starting from version v1.15.0 onwards.

NOTE: The following is a reference list of CNIs and versions we have already

> verified the migration process. CNIs and versions that are not listed here

Author: Done.

might also work. Please create an issue if you run into problems during the
migration to Antrea. During the migration process, no Kubernetes resources
should be created or deleted, otherwise the migration process might fail or
some unexpected problems might occur.

| CNI     | Version |
|---------|---------|
| Calico  | v3.26   |
| Flannel | v0.22.0 |

The migration process is divided into three steps:

1. Clean up the old CNI.
2. Install Antrea in the cluster.
3. Deploy Antrea migrator.

## Clean up the old CNI

The cleanup process varies across CNIs, typically you should remove
the DaemonSet, Deployment, and CRDs of the old CNI from the cluster.
For example, if you used `kubectl apply -f <CNI_MANIFEST>` to install
the old CNI, you could then use `kubectl delete -f <CNI_MANIFEST>` to
uninstall it.

## Install Antrea

The second step is to install Antrea in the cluster. You can follow the
[installation guide](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/main/docs/getting-started.md)
to install Antrea. The following is an example of installing Antrea v1.14.1:

```bash

> $ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/releases/download/v1.14.1/antrea.yml

Reviewer: nit: remove `$` when it's pure commands so it's easier to copy via a click. `$` is meaningful when used to differentiate command and output.

Author: Removed the dollar symbol.

```

## Deploy Antrea migrator

After Antrea is up and running, you can now deploy Antrea migrator
by the following command. The migrator runs as a DaemonSet, `antrea-migrator`,
in the cluster, which will restart all non hostNetwork Pods in the cluster
in-place and perform necessary network resource cleanup.

```bash

> $ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/main/build/yamls/antrea-migrator.yml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/antrea-io/antrea/main/build/yamls/antrea-migrator.yml
```

Author: Addesseed.

```

The reason for restarting all Pods is that Antrea needs to take over the
network management and IPAM from the old CNI. In order to avoid the Pods
being rescheduled and minimize service downtime, the migrator restarts

> all non-hostNetwork Pods in-place by restarting their sandbox container.

Reviewer 4: container -> containers

> Therefore, it's expected to see these Pods' `RESTARTS` being increased

Reviewer 2: it's expected to see the `RESTARTS` count for these Pods being increased

Author: Done.

by 1 like below:

```bash

> kubectl get pod -o wide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ kubectl get pod -o wide
```
since the text box has both commands and output and users can't copy via a click. My comment in https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/5677#discussion_r1445691515 mentioned the case.

NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS      AGE    IP          NODE          NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-29qbq   1/1     Running   1 (24s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.3   test-worker   <none>           <none>
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-dqx2g   1/1     Running   1 (23s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.6   test-worker   <none>           <none>
migrate-example-6d6b97f96b-jpflg   1/1     Running   1 (23s ago)   2m5s   10.10.1.5   test-worker   <none>           <none>
```

> When we meet the condition that all Pods of antrea-migrator are in `Running`

Reviewer 4: antrea-migrator -> `antrea-migrator`

Please change all occasions.

> When we meet the condition that all Pods of antrea-migrator are in `Running`

Reviewer 4: "When the `antrea-migrator` Pods on all Nodes are"?

> When the `antrea-migrator` Pods on all Nodes are are in `Running` state,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the `antrea-migrator` Pods on all Nodes are in `Running` state,
```

state, the migration process is completed. You can then remove the antrea-migrator

> DaemonSet safely by the following command:

Reviewer 4: by -> with

> # Migrate from other CNI to Antrea

Reviewer 4: other -> Another

Author: Changed to "another"

This document describes how to migrate from other CNIs to Antrea.

NOTE: The following is a reference list of CNIs and versions we have already
verified the migration process. CNIs and versions that are not listed here

> might also work, please create an issue if you run into problems during the

Reviewer 4: , please -> . Please

Author: Done.

> migration to Antrea. In addition, during the migration process, no Kubernetes

Reviewer 4: Remove "In addition"

Author: Removed.

resources should be created or deleted, otherwise the migration process might
fail or some unexpected problems might occur.

| CNI     | Version |
|---------|---------|
| Calico  | v3.26   |
| Flannel | v0.22.0 |

The migration process is divided into three steps:

> 1. Clean up old CNI.

Reviewer 4: the old CNI

Author: "The" Added.

Reviewer 4: You probably missed this one.

Author: Sorry, thanks for the reminder. Addressed.

2. Install Antrea in the cluster.
3. Restart all Pods in the cluster in-place.

## Clean up old CNI

Before installing Antrea in the cluster, the old CNI needs to be cleaned up. The
cleanup process is different for different CNIs, but the basic idea is to
remove the old CNI DaemonSet, Deployment, and CRDs from the cluster. The most
common way is to use the `kubectl delete` command to delete the old CNI, just
like the following example:

```bash
$ kubectl delete -f <OLD_CNI_MANIFEST>
```

## Install Antrea

The second step is to install Antrea in the cluster. You can follow the
[installation guide](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/main/docs/getting-started.md)

> to install Antrea in the cluster. The following is an example of

Reviewer 4: Remove "in the cluster".

Author: Removed.

> installing Antrea with release v1.14.1:

Reviewer 4: installing Antrea v1.14.1

Author: Done.

```bash

> # For example, deploying Antrea with the v1.14.1 release

Reviewer 4: Remove this line?

Author: Removed.

$ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/releases/download/v1.14.1/antrea.yml
```

## Restart Pods

After Antrea is installed in the cluster, the next step is to restart all
Pods in the cluster in-place by the following command. This step will create
a DaemonSet in the cluster, which will restart all Pods in the cluster in-place.

```bash
$ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/releases/download/v1.15.0/antrea-migrator.yml
```

The reason for restarting all Pods is that Antrea needs to take over the
network management and IPAM from the old CNI. In order to avoid the Pods
being rescheduled, we restart all Pods in-place by deploying a DaemonSet
named `antrea-migrator`, which will run a Pod on each Node. The
`antrea-migrator` Pod will stop all containerd tasks of Pods with CNI network on
each Node, and the containerd tasks will be restarted by the containerd
service. In this way, all Pods in the cluster will not be rescheduled but will
be restarted in-place.

> The restart result will be similar as follows, every Pod's `RESTARTS` will

Reviewer 4: every -> and every

Author: "and" added.
